{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1345\cocoasubrtf380
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red179\green179\blue179;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
--- layout: base title: DIRAC Institute --- \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul About\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Events\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Get Involved\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul LSST\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul People\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321

\b\fs48 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The University of Washington DIRAC Institute\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Realizing opportunities for data-driven discovery in astronomy and astrophysics. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
DIRAC: Data Intensive Research in Astrophysics and Cosmology\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The DIRAC Institute: The Data Intensive Research in Astrophysics and Cosmology Institute is a world leading, interdisciplinary research center that addresses fundamental questions about the origins and evolution of our universe. \
Our research brings together scientists across many disciplines on a mission to understand the nature of Dark Matter and Dark Energy, the emergence of structure within the universe, the formation of galaxies, the birth and evolution of black holes, the transformations of stars, and the origins of the planets. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Talks & Presentations\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa419

\b\fs18 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
TED Talk by Dr. Andy Connolly on the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa419

\b\fs18 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Slides: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file://www.slideshare.net/MarioJuric/lsstdm-building-a-next-generation-survey-data-processing-system"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul LSST/DM: Building a Next Generation Survey Data Processing System}} by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.slideshare.net/MarioJuric"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Mario Juric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data & Software\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Science Pipelines\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ls.st/ug"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul LSST Science Pipelines}} will implement the core image processing and data analysis algorithms needed to process optical survey imaging data at low latency and unprecedented scale and accuracy. We are writing pipelines for single-epoch image processing, coaddition, image differencing, optimal multi-epoch measurements, and (global) photometric and astrometric calibration, among others. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scalable Database\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
To satisfy the need to efficiently store, query, and analyze catalogs running into trillions of row gs and petabytes of data, we are developing {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ls.st/kth"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Qserv}}, a distributed shared-nothing SQL database query system. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
User Interface\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
One of the most important jobs of a large survey is to provide access. This includes access to catalogs, processed images, and raw images. Access in the next generation of surveys will extend to visualization and analysis. We are writing interfaces that will allow thousands of users to query, download, visualize, and analyze petabytes of LSST data. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Data Access Middleware\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
In order to build a scalable, portable processing system, we are creating extensible middleware to transparently access data irrespective of storage location or format. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Distributed Execution\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The LSST data processing pipelines will need to efficiently scale from single core execution to tens of thousands of cores. To meet this requirement we are building an orchestration framework to launch and monitor jobs on many different systems at many different scales. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Upcoming Events\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa332

\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
UW Astronomy\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{% include events_uwastro.html %\} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa332

\b\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
eScience Institute\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls3\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\{% include events_escience.html %\} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://depts.washington.edu/astron/events/"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul See all upcoming UW Astronomy Events \'bb}}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Getting Involved\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
DIRAC is creating an environment where scientists can harness interdisciplinary expertise to solve some of the most difficult questions facing Astronomy today. It provides an interaction space between Astrophysics, Computer Science, Statistics, and other disciplines. It is a place where ideas across many disciplines come together and mature; a laboratory for devising new ways of extracting knowledge from complex systems. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Postdoctoral and/or Research Scientist Positions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The DIRAC Institute and LSST group in the Astronomy department at the University of Washington have openings for two postdoctoral or research scientist positions. These positions are to help with the processing and analysis of data from the Zwicky Transit Factory (ZTF) and the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST). The University of Washington is a new member of the ZTF collaboration, a time-domain survey that will see first light in 2017 when it will scan over 3750 square degrees an hour to a depth of 20.5-21 mag. As part of its contributions to ZTF, UW and the DIRAC Institute (a newly established institute for data intensive survey astrophysics at the University of Washington) will lead the development of a database for storing and serving transient and variable sources detected by ZTF. \
Current LSST DM job openings: \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.princeton.edu/astro/resources/job/jo/index.xml#comp000055bddc2d0000003dd7408b"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Princeton University: Postdoctoral Positions in Software}}\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 Updated for 2017 start\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\fs22 \cf0 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hint
\f0\fs24 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 To receive e-mails for new LSST DM job openings, subscribe to the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://lists.lsst.org/mailman/listinfo/dm-announce"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul dm-announce}} mailing list. For more LSST positions, see the main {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://lsst.org/hiring"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul LSST Hiring}} page. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Use, Modify, Contribute\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The LSST data processing system, though still in an early construction phase, is an open source (GPLv3) software project free for anyone to use and is open to contributions from the community. \
We invite you to:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://pipelines.lsst.io/"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Read the documentation at pipelines.lsst.io}}\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://community.lsst.org/c/dm"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Join the conversation with DM on the LSST Community forum}}\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://github.com/lsst"}}{\fldrslt \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul View the code on GitHub}}\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The LSST Survey and DIRAC\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
8.4 meter, wide-field, f/1.2 telescope.\uc0\u8232 3.2 Gigapixel, 189 4k x 4k CCD camera, with 2-second readout.\u8232 PetaFLOPS of computing power, hundreds of PB of storage, gigabit long-haul networks.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Turning the sky into a database.\
Petascale Era of Optical Astronomy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Beginning early in the next decade, the LSST will collect over 50 PB of raw data, resulting in over 30 trillion observations of 40 billion astronomical sources. It will measure the positions and properties of over 20 billion stars, or 10% of all stars in the Milky Way.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Rapid Discovery\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The LSST will scan the visible sky once every three days, charting objects that change or move: from exploding supernovae to potentially hazardous near-Earth asteroids.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Open Data, Open Source\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
LSST data will be available with no proprietary period to all astronomers in the United States, Chile, and International Partners. Alerts about variable sources will be available world-wide within 60 seconds. The LSST data processing stack will be open source (GPL v3). \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.lsst.org//overview"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\ul Learn more about the science of LSST \'bb}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
People, Sponsors, and Contact Information\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa332

\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Andy Connolly\'a0\'a0
\fs18 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Director
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
My work focuses on using large surveys to study cosmology and the evolution of galaxies. This ranges from studying the clustering of galaxies and their evolution with redshift, weak gravitational lensing of galaxies, and estimating the properties of galaxies based on their colors (aka photometric redshifts). The common theme to this work is addressing the need for massive data sets and how to work with them. One area that interests me a lot at the moment is the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) where I lead the development of simulations of what LSST might observe. Beyond cosmology, I am also interested in how to make the technologies that companies use to search the internet useful in research and education.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa332

\b\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mario Juri\uc0\u263 \'a0\'a0
\fs18 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Director
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I'm interested in astronomical 'Big Data': developing and applying methods and algorithms that let us use large data sets to answer research questions. Major astronomical surveys of today are routinely collecting hundreds of terabytes of images, creating databases with billions of objects and several billion measurements. Large surveys astronomers are becoming part data scientists. In my research, I go where the data takes me \'e2\'80\'94 I've worked on topics ranging from asteroids in the Solar System, Galactic structure, to the scale structure of the universe. My current focus is using survey data to understand the structure and evolution of the Milky Way.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa332

\b\fs20 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'8eeljko Ivezi\uc0\u263 \'a0\'a0
\fs18 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Director
\fs20 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'8eeljko Ivezi\uc0\u263  (pronounced something like Gel-co Eva-zich) obtained undergraduate degrees in mechanical engineering and physics from the University of Zagreb, Croatia, in 1990 and 1991. He obtained Ph.D. in physics from the University of Kentucky in 1995, where he worked on dust radiative transfer models and wrote the code Dusty. He moved on to Princeton University in 1997 to work on the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, and took a professorship at the University of Washington, Seattle, in 2004. \'8eeljko's scientific interests are in detection, analysis and interpretation of electromagnetic radiation from astronomical sources. His current obsession is the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope project, for which he serves as the Project Scientist.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa319

\b \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sponsors\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
         \
}